📖 Document how to configure global pull secrets (#1410)
operator-framework/operator-controller: docs/howto/configure-global-pull-secrets.md

---
tags:
  - alpha
---

> # Configure global pull secrets for allowing components to pull private images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Configure global pull secrets for allowing components to pull from private registries
```

I think it would be more clearer to use the term "private registries" instead of "private images," as the authentication is specifically for accessing the registry where images are hosted, right?

> **Note: The UX for how auth info for using private images is provided is an active work in progress.**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note: The UX for providing authentication details for private registry images is an active work in progress..**  
```
same ^

> To configure `catalogd` and `operator-controller` to use authentication information for pulling private images (catalog/bundle images etc), the components can be informed about a kubernetes `Secret` object that contains the relevant auth information. The `Secret` must be of type `kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow [catalogd](https://github.com/operator-framework/catalogd) and [operator-controller](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-controller) to authenticate and pull images from a private registry (for catalog/bundle images, etc.), you need to provide these components with a Kubernetes `Secret` object containing the necessary credentials. The `Secret` must be of type [`kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/#registry-secret-existing-credentials).
```

- The correct term would be "private registry," right, not "images"?
- Additionally, wdyt about adding links to both project repositories for catalogd and operator-controller?
- wdyt about including a reference to the Kubernetes documentation on kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson secrets for further guidance?

> Once the `Secret` is created, `catalogd` and `operator-controller` needs to be redeployed with an additional field, `--global-pull-secret=<secret-namespace>/<secret-name>` passed to the respective binaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the `Secret` is created, `catalogd` and `operator-controller` needs to be redeployed with an additional flag, --global-pull-secret=<secret-namespace>/<secret-name>, to pass the registry credentials to the respective binaries.
```

> For eg, create a `Secret` using locally available `config.json`: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Example**

To create a `Secret` using locally available `config.json` for the private registry: 
```

```sh
$ kubectl create secret docker-registry test-secret \
  --from-file=.dockerconfigjson=$HOME/.docker/config.json \
  --namespace olmv1-system

> secret/test-secret created

Reviewer: Should we include the output of the command? Adding it might make it harder for users to copy, paste, and use the command directly, right?

```

Verify that the Secret is created: 

```sh
$ kubectl get secret test-secret -n olmv1-system -o yaml 
apiVersion: v1
data:
  .dockerconfigjson: ewogICJh....
kind: Secret
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2024-10-25T12:05:46Z"
  name: test-secret
  namespace: olmv1-system
  resourceVersion: "237734"
  uid: 880138f1-5d98-4bb0-9e45-45e8ebaff647
type: kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
```

> Modify the `config/base/manager/manager.yaml` file for `catalogd` and `operator-controller` to include the new field in the binary args: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify the `config/base/manager/manager.yaml` file for `catalogd` and `operator-controller` to include the new flag in the binary args: 
```

```yaml
 - command:
        - ./manager
        args:
        - ...
        - ...
        - ...

>         - --global-pull-secret=olmv1-system/test-secret

Reviewer: If we edit the deployment directly, we need to re-install.
Then, if we run `make run` we will lose what was done above
Also, it does not seems a valid approach for end users

So, I think we need say here to:

```
kubectl patch deployment operator-controller-controller-manager -n olmv1-system --type=json -p='[
  {
    "op": "add",
    "path": "/spec/template/spec/containers/0/args/-",
    "value": "--global-pull-secret=olmv1-system/test-secret"
  }
]'
```

```

> 

Reviewer: It seems that it is missing `kubectl patch serviceaccount operator-controller-controller-manager \
  -n olmv1-system \
  -p '{"imagePullSecrets": [{"name": "test-secret"}]}'`
  
  But anyway, I cannot see it working :-(

> With the above configuration, creating a `ClusterCatalog` or a `ClusterExention` whose content is packaged in a private container image hosted in an image registry, will become possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the above configuration, creating a `ClusterCatalog` or a `ClusterExention` whose content is packaged in a container image hosted in an private registry, will become possible.
```

is the registry which is private right?
